---
kindle-sync:
  bookId: '6910'
  title: 'Site Reliability Engineering: How Google Runs Production Systems'
  author: 'Niall Richard Murphy, Betsy Beyer, Chris Jones, and Jennifer Petoff'
  asin: B01DCPXKZ6
  lastAnnotatedDate: '2020-09-28'
  bookImageUrl: 'https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/91CMi+LGZiL._SY160.jpg'
  highlightsCount: 32
captured: 2023-04-01
captured_via: kindle
wiki_compiled: true
---
# Site Reliability Engineering
## Metadata
* Author: [Niall Richard Murphy, Betsy Beyer, Chris Jones, and Jennifer Petoff](https://www.amazon.comundefined)
* ASIN: B01DCPXKZ6
* Reference: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B01DCPXKZ6
* [Kindle link](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6)

## Highlights
It is about scaling a business process, rather than just the machinery. — location: [78](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=78) ^ref-51533

---
Software engineering has this in common with having children: the labor before the birth is painful and difficult, but the labor after the birth is where you actually spend most of your effort. — location: [88](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=88) ^ref-28991

---
principles of computer science and engineering to the design and development of computing systems: generally, large distributed ones. — location: [99](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=99) ^ref-24920

---
Next, we focus on system reliability. — location: [103](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=103) ^ref-63198

---
operating services built atop our distributed computing systems, whether those services are planet-scale storage, email for hundreds of millions of users, or where Google began, web search. — location: [109](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=109) ^ref-3273

---
“part of the culture was to learn from everyone and everything, including from that which one would least expect.” — location: [139](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=139) ^ref-10674

---
“a thorough understanding of how to operate the systems was not enough to prevent human errors,” — location: [154](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=154) ^ref-36229

---
thoroughness and dedication, belief in the value of preparation and documentation, and an awareness of what could go wrong, coupled with a strong desire to prevent it. — location: [158](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=158) ^ref-40374

---
Ben Treynor Sloss, — location: [288](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=288) ^ref-17646

---
Hope is not a strategy. — location: [295](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=295) ^ref-20067

---
Running a service with a team that relies on manual intervention for both change management and event handling becomes expensive as the service and/or traffic to the service grows, because the size of the team necessarily scales with the load generated by the system. — location: [314](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=314) ^ref-20952

---
The indirect costs of the development/ops split can be subtle, but are often more expensive to the organization than the direct costs. These costs arise from the fact that the two teams are quite different in background, skill set, and incentives. They use different vocabulary to describe situations; they carry different assumptions about both risk and possibilities for technical solutions; they have different assumptions about the target level of product stability. — location: [316](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=316) ^ref-21547

---
is what happens when you ask a software engineer to design an operations team. — location: [338](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=338) ^ref-47079

---
Without constant engineering, operations load increases and teams will need more people just to keep pace with the workload. — location: [358](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=358) ^ref-60306

---
In general, an SRE team is responsible for the availability, latency, performance, efficiency, change management, monitoring, emergency response, and capacity planning of their service(s). — location: [396](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=396) ^ref-29753

---
When they are focused on operations work, on average, SREs should receive a maximum of two events per 8–12-hour on-call shift. — location: [409](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=409) ^ref-60726

---
SRE’s goal is no longer “zero outages”; rather, SREs and product developers aim to spend the error budget getting maximum feature velocity. — location: [439](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=439) ^ref-56786

---
Monitoring — location: [442](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=442) ^ref-47178

---
Monitoring should never require a human to interpret any part of the alerting domain. Instead, software should do the interpreting, and humans should be notified only when they need to take action. — location: [447](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=447) ^ref-37940

---
There are three kinds of valid monitoring output: Alerts Signify that a human needs to take action immediately in response to something that is either happening or about to happen, in order to improve the situation. Tickets Signify that a human needs to take action, but not immediately. The system cannot automatically handle the situation, but if a human takes action in a few days, no damage will result. Logging No one needs to look at this information, but it is recorded for diagnostic or forensic purposes. The expectation is that no one reads logs unless something else prompts them to do so. — location: [450](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=450) ^ref-52524

---
Emergency Response — location: [457](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=457) ^ref-9813

---
When humans are necessary, we have found that thinking through and recording the best practices ahead of time in a “playbook” produces roughly a 3x improvement in MTTR as compared to the strategy of “winging it.” — location: [463](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=463) ^ref-29388

---
Change Management — location: [469](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=469) ^ref-44969

---
SRE has found that roughly 70% of outages are due to changes in a live system. Best practices in this domain use automation to accomplish the following: — location: [472](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=472) ^ref-19309

---
Implementing progressive rollouts Quickly and accurately detecting problems Rolling back changes safely when problems arise — location: [473](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=473) ^ref-21441

---
Demand Forecasting and Capacity Planning — location: [477](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=477) ^ref-25701

---
Provisioning — location: [488](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=488) ^ref-2092

---
Efficiency and Performance — location: [494](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=494) ^ref-62500

---
a complex system that works necessarily evolved from a simple system that works. — location: [753](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=753) ^ref-17011

---
“The Four Golden Signals”). — location: [1379](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=1379) ^ref-1576

---
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N%2B1_redundancy — location: [1595](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=1595) ^ref-60159

---
If we have to staff humans to do the work, we are feeding the machines with the blood, sweat, and tears of human beings. — location: [1654](kindle://book?action=open&asin=B01DCPXKZ6&location=1654) ^ref-30624

---
